Habits Die Hard Parents and Teachers play a vital role in building a child’s personality. The good habits we inculcate in our children provide lifelong benefits. After all a habit is a routine of behaviour that is repeated regularly and tends to occur subconsciously, so once habituated, it becomes an intrinsic part of an individual.Many things taken lightly by us cause a great deal of problems to the child later. A child not wanting to attend school for the slightest of reasons and parents agreeing to it may send a message to the child that school is not a serious matter. We need to assess the reason and only if serious enough agree to it. Children are perceptive and can read our mind and know what we are serious about. So once they get the message that attending school is a serious matter, they will.When we do not check them in time and indulge them by believing that they will eventually grow out of the habit, we are actually doing them disservice. Some things that seem amusing at an early age become disgusting habits later. Drawing on the walls at home, lifting their feet while sitting on the sofa and chair, making a mess and expecting others to clear up and nail biting are some of the habits that are seen in many children. Gradually it becomes a part of their personality and is difficult to stop.Laying down some ground rules about behaviour and being particular about teaching them to say Please, Thank you and Sorry when needed will turn them into pleasant personalities.  Offering a chair to an elder and greeting people are some of the niceties we need to repeatedly tell them about. Encouraging them to share their belongings and helping out others will increase their self worth. Getting them to do little jobs at home will not only make them self-reliant but also boost their confidence.Heaps of praise when they act in a desired manner will encourage them to remain well behaved and develop into well-liked individuals. Our counselling department has provided teachers with three stamps with the signs below to encourage good conduct:We love our children and do want them to be the best!! 